# Comparative Analysis of Wind and Coal Power Plants on Astronomical Visibility Using Light Pollution Maps
by Pavan Siddharth Kosuru

## Overview
  Astronomy is a field open to people with varying levels of interest— some individuals are hobbyists, and many others build professions around it. Regardless of where one lies on this scale, to make astronomical observations, enthusiasts require locations with an adequate amount of darkness in an area. It is not surprising to believe that certain areas sustain characteristics that contribute to light pollution over others. As a result, there are several satellite visualizations available that represent the light pollution in areas. According Esther Rolf, a final-year Ph.D. student in computer science at UC Berkeley, “[s]atellite images contain an incredible amount of data about the world, but the trick is how to translate the data into usable insights without having a human comb through every single image” (Lempinen, 2021). As she describes, satellite imagery prompts researchers with large amounts of data; this data can then be used for various scientific purposes— as discussed by the University of Minnesota satellite imagery can aid in “obtaining global views, multi-scale observations, frequent observations, direct and non-destructive observations, complete cover, and even non-visible spectral characteristics.” (Polar Geospatial Center, 2023). As such, data analysis is possible using satellite imagery in various fields. I utilize methods of image analysis with Python to conduct analysis in regards to light pollution and visibility for astronomical observers. 
  For this project, I utilized a calculated atlas— a light pollution map— to obtain data by utilizing the Python Imaging Library. The atlas portrays light pollution levels across North America. To test the utility of this data, I conducted a hypothesis test regarding a related question: Does the claim that the average brightness magnitude in areas with wind power plants greater than areas with coal-burning power plants have any validity? I used locations of randomly selected Power Plants within the United States of America in 2022 for the statistical tests. 

## Results
  The t-test returned a p-value of 5.19e-24. The low p-value (p-value < 0.01) highlights that there is a statistically significant difference. Thus, there is convincing evidence that the mean brightness magnitude for the wind power plants is greater than the mean brightness magnitude for the coal-burning power plants. A higher brightness magnitude reflects a darker sky. Skies with darker magnitudes present themselves as locations for individuals to observe the sky. Additionally, the mean brightness magnitude of 100 randomly selected wind power plants throughout the United States of America in 2022 is 21.30 mag/arcsec²; this falls under “[r]ural sky” (Washington State Energy Facility Site Evaluation Council, 2021). The mean brightness magnitude of 100 randomly selected coal-burning power plants throughout the United States of America in 2022 is 20.05 mag/arcsec², which, according to the Bortle Dark-Sky Scale alls within the label of “[s]uburban sky” (Washington State Energy Facility Site Evaluation Council, 2021). “Rural skies” are one class darker than “[s]uburban skies” (Washington State Energy Facility Site Evaluation Council, 2021), further emphasizing the results of the t-test. The results of this test suggest using wind power plants over coal-burning power plants to benefit astronomical observation and reduce light pollution.
  By utilizing a publicly accessible light pollution map and information regarding locations of power plants I conducted a significance test to address the question of whether areas with wind power plants have darker night skies than areas with coal-burning power plants. The results highlighted that there was convincing evidence to reject the null hypothesis and evidence for the alternate hypothesis that the mean brightness magnitude for the wind power plants is greater than the mean brightness magnitude for the coal-burning power plants. The test suggests that individuals wishing to make astronomical observations should avoid suburban areas with coal-burning power plants and areas with high levels of PM2.5 particulate matter. Future areas in research could explore methods using light pollution maps to conduct research while addressing confounding variables.

## Read The Paper Here
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ulFU0yR6QMqtCaevQBPmKfNc6lFtTmh53Vc3Qda94Ag/edit?usp=sharing

  
The "notebooks" folder contains the project files to be run.
The "data" folder contains the power plant data, light pollution map, processed data and data used in the analysis in the report.
The "videos" contains video demos for the analysis in the report (display the programs running in notebook utilizing the analysis data).
